### Ian Daniher

[@itdaniher](http://twitter.com/itdaniher)

explodingmind@gmail.com

513 327 8483

-----

### Experiences

* [Nonolith Labs, LLC][001]: CoFounder
 * Jan. 2011 – Present
 * Co-founded a company building tools enabling  makers and students to better explore the world around them. Raised over 20k via presales of our flagship product(The CEE) through Kickstarter, a crowdsourced funding program.

* iRobot Corporation: Intern
 * Jun. 2011 - Sept. 2011
 * Working as an intern in iRobot’s gov’t/industrial research division building firmware for a novel compliant robotic hand.

* Olin College: Student
 * Aug. 2009 – May 2011
 * Currently on leave of absence to pursue [Nonolith Labs.][001] Candidate for BS in Electrical Engineering.

* OLPCinci XO Repair Center: Founder
 * Summer 2008 – Mar. 2011
 * Designed and implemented a stop-gap supply chain for repairs in the US and created a model implemented in four other locations. Personally have handled over 300 repair requests.

* IEEE: Chapter Corporate Liaison
 * Oct. 2009 – May 2011
 * Responsible for fostering corporate relationships with companies in the electrical engineering sectors.

* One Laptop Per Child: Support Gang Member
 * Sept. 2007 – Jan. 2011
 * Provide customer support to owners of XO Laptops. Personally have assisted over 90 individuals in resolving technical/logistical difficulties.

* Science Olympiad: Team Leader
 * Sept. 2008 – Jun. 2009 
 * Lead the 08-09 CHCA Science Olympiad team to 8th place out of 22 teams.

* Cincinnati Hills Christian Academy
 * Sept. 2006 – Jun. 2009 
 * Graduated from CHCA, took classes including AP Latin, AP Chem, AP Physics, AP Calc, AP English.

* InterAlliance Group Leader
 * Aug. 2007
 * IT summer camp / technical design competition. Led INTERalliance team to second-place position.
 * Was given “Mr. InterAlliance” award “For best typifying the values, goals, and mission of the INTERalliance of Greater Cincinnati at the 2007 IT Careers Camp” 

* IEEE NanoTech Conference
 * Jul. 2006
 * Attended the IEEE NanoTech Conference.

-----

### Things I've Built

* The CEE by [Nonolith Labs][001]
 * Feb. 2011 - Present
 * [The CEE](http://nonolithlabs.com/cee) is a USB source-measure unit designed to be used as "cavalier instrumentation" - a general purpose tool for the curious to interact with the world around them.

* [Motion-Reactive Glow Toy - Protoflo](http://github.com/itdaniher/protoflo)
 * Sept. 2011
 * Redesigned earlier efforts (see "Synesthesia" below) to be more generally applicable and more hackable. Added USB interface supporting override mode of default behavior.

* [Open-Source Driver for Lab Hardware](http://github.com/itdaniher/Olin-SMUs)
 * Spring 2011
 * Wrote a Python driver for the homebrew source-measure unit used by Olin College in its introductory electrical engineering classes.

* [Open-Source LEGO WeDo Driver](http://github.com/itdaniher/WeDoMore)
 * Spring 2011
 * Built a open-source driver for the Lego WeDo educational platform, provided a patch for use with TurtleArt, the graphical LOGO clone shipped by the One Laptop Per Child project.

* Pneumatic Gripper
 * Winter 2011
 * Inspired by an iRobot/Cornell research project, I constructed a pneumatic “jamming” robotic manipulator.

* Motion-Reactive Glow Poi - Synesthesia
 * Summer 2010
 * As a part of a summer experiment in hardware design, I co-founded a small business and successfully produced a prototype of a novel motion-reactive glow poi for performance arts.

* Python/Parallel-Port Pinewood Derby Timer
 * Winter 2010, Winter 2011
 * Built a parallel-port based pinewood derby timer in Python. Used for Spring 2010/2011 races.

* Web-Controlled Pelletgun Turret
 * Winter 2010
 * Built a small pan/tilt airsoft turret complete with web/iPad control scheme.

* Electromechanical Magic Trick
 * Winter 2007
 * Contracted to build a small microcontroller based electromechanical system for a magic trick.

-----

### Skills

* Proficient with BASH, Python, Matlab, embedded C
* Proficient with OSX, Windows XP/Vista, and Linux distributions including Debian, Ubuntu, and Fedora.
* Familiar with digital communication protocols including I2C, SPI, and USB.

[001]: http://nonolithlabs.com/  "Nonolith Labs"
