The music classroom of today closely resembles the music classroom of hundreds of years ago. 
Instruments might be cheaper and more plentiful, but the basics are the same. 
There's still a maestro, someone with mastery of the trade, individually conveying the nuances of the art to students and guiding group practices. 
Those desiring to reach exceptional competency have no choice but to shell out incredible sums of money for regular meetings with extremely skilled tutors, as of yet, the best method we have for providing individual feedback and progress assessment. 
Salman Kahn managed to solve this problem for your average wrote learning class - his series of video tutorials covers all aspects of highschool English, Science, and Math, but is woefully devoid of instructions in the arts. 
Art education is fundamentally an interactive and tangible exchange, not something that can be adequately distilled to a series of video tutorials, despite what YouTube might say to the contrary.

NMT, or Nell's Music Tutor, is an answer to these problems. 
It's the missing link, connecting the everpresent platform for ephemerealizion, the smartphone, to the world of the arts. 
By leveraging techniques borrowed from digital signal processing and modern game design, NMT can provide a level of responsiveness and personalization unachievable before. 

The real time annotations to sheet music is just the tip of the functionality. 

While responsive indicatations of deviations in pitch and timing, NMT gives students real metrics and performance analytics to track and encourage  


-----

Check out [Euphony](https://github.com/qiao/euphony), a JS&WebGL based MIDI player and visualizer. 
Take note that MIDI contains tone and timing information.
